# Recommendation

My recommendation regarding this decision that the Minister of Employment must make is to choose Intervention B, which follows the Fundamental Loop in the Archetype Diagram with the inclusion of Government funding to Employers. Looking at the Archetype Loop in Analysis.md, it is shown that by increasing employer knowledge and understanding of inclusive hiring, it not only increases the quality of accommodation and workplace accessibility but also the Employment rate of people with disabilities. The increase in the Employment Rate also increases quality of Workplace accommodation and accessibility, showing that in this loop, the quality of workplace accommodation and accessibility is essential to hiring those with disabilities. With workplace accessibility being an important factor in hiring those with disabilities, some employers may feel that the funding they receive should go towards making their workplace accessible and paying for their employees’ accommodation, however the average cost people with disabilities is surprisingly low, estimated at about $500 USD (Cantor, 2021). The funding provided by the government should go towards the education all employers should receive to understand and become more knowledgeable in inclusive hiring practices. The Government of Canada currently has several different Employment programs for people with disabilities including the Opportunities Fund for People with Disabilities, which as mentioned earlier, helps close the skills and employment gap between people with and without disabilities by supporting those with disabilities to find and keep good jobs, advance in their careers, or become entrepreneurs through funding projects delivered by third party organizations (Canada, 2025). As it is a fairly new fund, there are very few testimonies of how the program has helped individuals in their search for employment. According to a news article in 2022, the Opportunities Fund is working with a 2020 program evaluation finding that individuals who participate in the program see an increase in earnings up to 40%, a major benefit (Draus, 2022). A Halifax resident, who has used the program found that they were able to get a job easier through the program as it allowed her to take a digital literacy course and enrolled them in a wage subsidy program offered through TEAM Work Cooperative, a Nova Scotia employment center aimed at promoting inclusive employment (Draus, 2022). While the funding will be beneficial if it is used for the right purpose, organizations who receive funding may use it for different purposes, then for education into inclusive hiring and workplaces. There is also the potential that a political party or leader may change every 4 years, with different values, agendas and the interests for people with disabilities, meaning funding for programs like this are at risk of being significantly cut or eliminated altogether. To begin this project, the first thing that I would recommend is to set up focus groups and bring in people with disabilities from across the country to discuss what they would want employers to know about people with disabilities. With this information, the team working with the Minister of Employment can create a training program around hiring those with disabilities. The program should be in both English and French as well as in Northern Indigenous Languages, to be accessible to all. If there are videos incorporated in the training, actors should be those with disabilities, and the program should be handed out to all the third-party employment organizations who would hand it out to employers’ part of their program.
